---
title: "Being an Introvert"
date: 2020-09-16T17:12:51+05:30
draft: false
tags: ["Pariah","Philosophy","Life","Introvert"]
featuredImage: "third_post.jpg"
author: "Gunjan Shah"
---

The society was a general construct when we were in the stone age but now this idea has become a reality,and we are basically born into it. The society divides people into three categories based on their nature and the amount of interaction they have among the members belonging to the same.(There are a lot of more distinctions that are dictated by society but I wanted to get into specifically this one.) The first one are the extroverts, the second ones are the introverts and the third ones are actually newly termed, they are called the ambiverts. Let me break it down what each of the term means.Extroverts are people who thrive when they have social interactions. They vocalize their very thoughts, and are super enthusiastic people. They have a shiny personality which oozes of charisma.Introverts are the poeple who are awkward with social interactions, its not that they don't like them, they just feel that is too out of their comfort zone. The best thing about them is that they are great listeners and don't mistake them for people who seem serious or boring. The ambiverts are in the middle of the spectrum wherein they are just a little bit of both. They are someone with a lot of charisma who are great listeners , at the same time they can give you their opinion with confidence.These people sit in the cross-section of the other two extreme categories. 

Sometimes I do dwindle between the different categories depending on the siuation but I am majorly an introvert. Being an introvert I never thought that I would be so dramatic and vocal about this. Starting from my childhood I have always been the kid who loved to be alone or who was just awkward with social interactions.My distant memories lead me to believe that somewhere along the way I just started liking the silence and stillness of being alone. Every party that I had to go to, had this anticipation period wherein I could feel the discomfort. Given we live in a very social society where interactions are a banality, but for me they were a "bane"lity. It does seem like being an introvert has its assumed disadvantages but it is actually not that bad. I became a person who was very meticulous and a good listener. Being a listener made me more conscious of other people thought processes and respect where they come from ; at the same time I could prepare a more concise and evolved thought taking into account the different opinions I heard and then deliver it clearly. This nature made me understand a lot of what and how the society is driven. There is always that discomfort tagging along when we try coming out from our comfort zone as an introvert but they develop us.

The discomfort started to be something I embraced more openly and the changes that came with it.Thinking about this elicits one distinct memory of school when I joined the Basketball team. I still remember the first day, it was quite an interesting one. I was standing there with my friend not speaking a word. We were asked to run some laps, do dribbling which we didn't even know how to do, at the side of the court. So we were basically sidelined into the corner of the court and the seniors were playing. So we basically did stupid stuff as a newbie and we could see our seniors communicating, making strategies while playing a full court game. All I did was dribble and observe them, that was my Eureka moment. I realized for any organization to function we need all kinds of people : introverts, extroverts and ambiverts.I could see the winning team communicated very well, and they had a mastermind who would make plans for the next run and he was the observer, then there was one who was like an extrovert who wasn't afraid to take uncalculated risks, and then there was the one who balanced the craziness and the calmness. I started embracing being an introvert more and in fact I started enjoying it. The team became my extended family soon. They taught me some of the best lessons and I am forever grateful for that friend who forced me step into the unknown.

Some experiences in our lives make us accepting of our traits, as quirky as they may be. Being an introvert is not bad, infact I am the nerdiest one you will meet, but I own it. I am still the happiest when I read books or go out for a coffee alone but now I accept social interactions as they are and love them equally too. Embracing the unknown and walking the unfathomable path and enjoying this journey has become my new goal.  