---
title: "Living Mindfully"
date: 2020-09-24T17:58:49+05:30
draft: false
tags: ["Mindful","Philosophy","Life","Anxiety","Ikigai","Meditation"]
featuredImage: "fourth_post.jpg"
author: "Gunjan Shah"
---

There have been many times in our lives where at any given moment we are thinking about either the past or the future, you might be doing it right now as well, maybe thinking about the next thing you will look in instagram or simply surf or just think wishfully. There are a lot of studies published on this particular subject and what I can finally conclude from all of them is that they rob us of the joys of simple living or should I say simply living in the moment. Living mindfully in its most banal way means living in this very moment. There have been many sugarcoated words in the actual definition but to me it will always mean living here, living right now, living away from the worries of the future, and the sombre/content memories of the past.

We all experience in some phase in our lives that we are not content,we realize the happiness which we live to achieve is something really temporary especially when we are trying to fulfill this gaping void by buying things or by seeking connections. This gives rise to a lot of inner turmoil, which results into negative emotions. The negative emotions are stronger than the positive ones similar to when our shadows become longer than our actual self and that takes a mental toll on us. Living mindfully therefore comes in handy when we feel something like this. It is not simply meditation or doing yoga but it is seeing , experiencing what we feel this moment, trying to cut down any internal factors affecting the moment; internal factors can include chain of thoughts lingering in your head. 

Meditation is one of the tools to achieve this, another one could be travelling even though it is a very ephemeral way to experience mindfulness. There are different ways of practicing mindfulness, one small example being when you sit to have your meal try doing it without any gadgets , just enjoy what you have, don't try and multitask; if you are having thoughts just dont engage yourself in them , simply acknowledge them and concentrate on your food. Believe me it might be the best meal you had all day. A little does make a difference. One more example could be while trying to accomplish a particular task,stop getting distracted with social media notifications, simply put them in silent mode and then do your task fully. Your brain gets tired due to switching between tasks, so when you are fully concentrated you start experiencing the flow. Be creative and try applying it into other spheres of you life you will start experiencing a new found inspiration and mettle inside you. You will be more fulfilled and it will guide you to your ikigai(the purpose of your being).You will be more motivated and this motivation will ooze from you, so you will not depend on anyone for it. You will start flowing and your brain state would be one of awareness. This state is achieved by a lot of olympic gold medalists and that is what they call as "the zone". Achieving or tapping into this alpha state of the brain can mould your life for the better and make it more colorful.

Living mindfully can turn a new leaf in your life, it can fill your life with more passion,motivation and content than you have ever felt before. The "flow"(being in the zone) and your ikigai are waiting to be found. All you have to do is start and keep going because you are your own "see"r.
